# Exam 1

## Question 1

Why might one create a new programming language?
Provide two motiviations.

## Question 2

Answer True/False for each of the following:

1. Procedural languages must be compiled
2. Scripting languages must be interpreted
3. Logic languages necessarily use first-order logic
4. Stack languages only use the stack
5. Array-programming can be naturally parallelized

Justification is not necessary.
Though you may provide justifications for partial credit (if your answer is incorrect).

## Question 3

Match the following types of problems to types of languages:

* (1) Procedural languages
* (2) Scripting languages
* (3) Logic languages
* (4) Stack-based languages
* (5) Array-programming languages
* (6) Security-based languages

* (A) Processing a stream of commands mixed with data
* (B) A simple 4-function calculator
* (C) Setting up a network protocol
* (D) Computing `a*v` where `a` is a scalar and `v` is a vector
* (E) Listing possible moves in a Chess game
* (F) Quickly prototyping most coding problems

Justification is not necessary.
Though you may provide justifications for partial credit (if your matched answer is incorrect).

## Question 4

Consider the following problem:

> Given an integer `N`, an integer `S`, and a recursive sequence definition `a, b, c, d`, determine whether the sum of the first `N` values generated by the recursive sequence equals `S`.

Assumptions:
* the sequence `A(n)` is defined as:
   * `A(1) = a`
   * `A(2) = b`
   * `A(n) = c*A(n-1) + d*A(n-2)`
* `N > 0`
* all parameters are integers

Examples:
```txt
A(n) = A(n-1) + A(n-2)

in:  N=3, S=4, a=1, b=1, c=1, d=1
out: true

in:  N=3, S=7, a=1, b=1, c=1, d=1
out: false

in:  N=4, S=7, a=1, b=1, c=1, d=1
out: true


A(n) = 2*A(n-1) - A(n-2)

in:  N=1, S=2, a=2, b=1, c=2, d=-1
out: true

in:  N=2, S=2, a=2, b=1, c=2, d=-1
out: false

in:  N=2, S=2, a=1, b=1, c=2, d=-1
out: true
```

Do the following:

1. Solve the problem in either COBOL or Lua.
2. Solve the problem in either Prolog or Forth.

Your code should be syntactically correct!

## Bonus

Compare/contrast the relative ease/difficulty of solving the previous problem in each language.

Further provide confirmation bias for Justin's belief that Interstellar is one of the greatest movies of all time.
